In this video I'm going to give a brief overview about topics topics represent one of the most important
features of troubled operating system they allow asynchronous communication between publishers and subscribers.
And I'd love to exchange messages between different notes in various eco.
So let's see how it works.
So basically in Rowse It's a collection of several nodes some nodes will produce information and these
notes we call them publishers and some other nodes we consume this information or the data and these
notes we typically call them subscribers.
So lets us consider a very simple example where you have a note that works as a publisher of odometry
and you have another note that is called subscriber for a scam application.
So what happens here is that a slap application is responsible for building a map.
So in order to build the map it be required to have the coordinates x y and data of the robot and these
coordinates will be provided by a special note that is called odometry which acts as a publisher of
this information.
So the odometry is going to perform locally computations in order to estimate the location of the robot
which is X Y and data and then we publish this information through a particular topic so that the subscriber
can listen to it whenever there is any change of the value X and Y and data.
So the communication channel between the publisher and subscriber is called topic.
It is also possible to have one publisher and multiple subscribers for the same publisher.
As an example we can have a distance sensor from a laser scanner that will publish the distance to obstacle
to one node for example and know that is responsible of obstacle avoidance and also can publish the
same the information to another note.
For example a node working on this Lamhe operation because we need the distance information to estimate
the distance to the walls and then build them map based on this information.
So it's possible to have one to one communication or one to any communication or even multiple publisher
and multiple subscribers depending on the purpose.
So to summarize usually in Russia we have some nodes that act as publishers and some others that are
as subscribers and they communicate between each other using a particular topic.
So messages that will be exchanged between a publisher and subscriber will be exchanged over a certain
topic and they will use a certain message format.
So the message that will be exchanged between the publisher and subscriber will contains the information
that would be ex-GI and for every message would have a particular type in the lecture where we have
presented topics nodes and messages.
We have already explained these concepts.
So let me show you now how a publisher and subscriber can communicate between each other.
So basically the first thing that we need to start in our system is to start the master of the master
know will be responsible of identifying all the different notes all the different topics.
So for example this note when it wakes up it will contact the master to register itself and register
all the topics that it may publish or it may subscribe to the same thing for note too.
And now let's imagine that we have a new iOS network that has started so we first started the roast
master and the rest is going to maintain all the information about the US network including the node
list the topic names everything.
And then later in time imagine that we have a second dog that is called Node 2 and it will act as a
subscriber for a particular topic.
So not two is going to declare itself to the master note saying hey I'm and you know I would like to
join the network.
This is my name subscriber not me.
And I would like to subscribe to a topic with a particular name topic name and to exchange messages
of a certain type so everything would be declared to the roast master node which will keep this information
waiting to have a publisher that will satisfy his criteria later on a publisher note can wake up.
And also it will do the same thing.
Its going to leak itself to the postmaster no presenting all the information about itself the publisher
know name the topic name and the message type that is going to be exchanged on this topic.
So the master now will have a global knowledge about these two different nodes and will figure out that
the topic name required by know to establish and by an old one.
So we can note too that there is now a new note that act as a publisher for the topic that you are looking
for.
So in this case not to what it is is this information is going to send a request for a connection with
no one using the disappearance protocol and then not to insult back a response to accept the connection
and start the communication with no two.
So at this time the subscriber knows we'll create a client for the publisher not using disappearance
and connects to the publisher no.
So the connection will be established at this point in time and the communication between the nodes
using these IP based protocol can start between the two notes.
So once the connection is fully established then no one can start sending the messages on the common
topic of interest and no one will be sending messages at regular time intervals depending on the frequency
of messages to note.
On the other hand not to is going to have a callback function that whenever there is a new message that
is received by no two is going to execute this callback function and will perform the required processing
of the message according to the application logic.
So let's look at this example here where we have a note that acts as a publisher and is going to receive
velocity commands from a keyboard and on the other hand we have a turtle sim in simulator which is going
to receive commands from the keyboard and then execute the commands to make a little bit more in the
simulation.
So the first operation is that the turtle sim node will send a request to declare itself into the master
no.
So it will tell everybody knows this is the name of the node turtle scene.
This is the name of the topic you will be in comments on.
It's called Turtle 1 cm the man and the type of messages for this topic is the truest message and the
message in the US is used to sound the linear speed and the under the speed of the robot.
So the second step is that the publisher note is going also to the club itself.
It will tell the roast master about its no name.
Tell your turtle about the topic is going to publish and about the type of the message for this topic.
So when this information reaches the roast master it will figure out that both note will use the same
topic.
OK so there is a matching here on the topic and also the message type.
So in this case it will inform as the first step the simulator that now that is and you know is called
Turtle but then you also contact this note in order to have the information that you need from it.
So in this case the turtle you know is going to send the request to the turtle to look up key note and
then the DeLeo note will send back a response and the connection will be established and then every
whenever there is a key that is pressed by this note this key will send a command to his simulator which
is going to execute it and make robot moves.
So if you lose the lecture by giving practical tips like publisher and subscriber for these topics whenever
you want to write a publisher there are a number of steps that you need to follow.
The first step is to determine the name of the topic to publish when you want to have a publisher.
First of all define a name for your topic and then determine what is the type of messages that you would
like to publish.
On the topic.
The first step is to determine the frequency of a topic publication.
This means how many messages per second you want to send on this topic.
This defines the frequency.
Finally you create a publisher object in the parameter chosen about and at last a step is to keep publishing
the topic using white group at the selected frequency.
Regarding the subscriber so what you want to subscribe to a topic.
First of all you have to know what is the topic name and also what is the type of the messages to be
received.
This is very important.
So the topic name allows you to know which channel you are going to use for communication and the type
of messages will allow you to know how to process the message received in the callback function and
how to extract the information coming in this message.
For example if your message is on fire.
In this case you can extract the linear velocity v x the Y and Z and you can also extract the angular
velocity w x W Y and Z.
So we know that this message type would have the linear velocity information and the angular velocity
information and the step three for every subscriber you need to define a callback function or callback
function.
It's a function that is executed automatically whenever a new message is received by the subscriber.
So this allows to process in real time every message coming extracting information from the message
and take appropriate actions.
And of course you need to start listening for the incoming messages on the topic and C++ in particular.
You need to run the spin operation that is going to start an endless for the subscriber listening for
incoming messages this is a summary of the operation you need to do for writing the publisher and subscriber.
And in the next 10 years we write publishers and subscribers in C++ and in Python.
And you've got to follow the steps that they have described at the end of this lecture.
So let's get started with the implementation details of publishers and subscribers.